The Apostle Paul was not a man given to boasting, but on one occasion he felt compelled to boast a little.
And that account is found for us in the book of 2 Corinthians chapter 11.
Please read with me 2 Corinthians chapter 11 and verse 23.
Are they ministers of Christ?
I reply like a madman.
I am more outstandingly one.
What was the subject of Paul's boast?
Being a minister of Christ.
And now being a minister of Christ, what was Paul's focus in this boast?
He said, I am more outstandingly one.
William Tyndale, when he translated this verse, he kept the very terseness and the clarity of the Greek when he simply said, I am more.
That's Paul's boast.
What is he focusing on though as a minister of Christ in his boast?
He said, I have done more work.
And now from verses 23 through 27, he gives almost a resume of what happened to him because of the work Paul did as a minister of Christ.
Well, how will your properly focusing on your work as a minister of Christ help you to succeed in your assignments?
Let's consider an example.
And it's found in the book of Luke chapter 8.
Luke chapter 8 verses 1 through 3.
Shortly afterward, he, this is Christ, traveled from city to city and from village to village, preaching and declaring the good news of the kingdom of God.
And the twelve were with him, as were certain women who had been cured of wicked spirits and sicknesses.
Mary, who was called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had come out.
Joanna, the wife of Kusa, herdsman in charge, Susanna, and many other women who were ministering to them from their belongings.
A group, Christ, the twelve, and women, women who ministered to the others.
What did that mean? Did it mean they cooked the meals, washed the dishes, mended the clothes? Possibly, but not necessarily entirely that.
These women ministered to the others by helping them to complete their assignment, as they went on completing their assignment as disciples of Christ.
Notice the backgrounds of these women.
Luke mentions three. He says, their women who were cured of wicked spirits and sicknesses, look at Mary. Mary, he says, from whom seven demons had come out.
He also mentions Joanna, the wife of Kusa, herdsman in charge, and Susanna.
Think of their backgrounds. Mary, seven demons came out of her. I wonder how that demon possession contributed to her personality.
What about Joanna? Joanna, it says, the wife of Kusa, herdsman in charge. In other words, Joanna live in herds palace. She was a woman of the court.
And also Susanna. It doesn't say specifically much about her other than perhaps she was one of the women who was cured of a sickness.
What was her personality like? How did these personalities work together?
Here's part of the example of what can help us to minister.
And that is to realize, when we look through the gospel accounts, we never find these women bickering or arguing amongst themselves about position or prominence or place, unlike some others in the group that were with them.
Why? Because these women focused on their ministry. They focused on their work. They served others and they served each other.
And that is a powerful example for you and for me.
Remember, in Isaiah chapter 11, verse 6, it's prophesied, the wolf will reside with the lamb, lions with calves. It's not going to be all lambs.
You will meet diverse personalities in your assignments and you will have to work with diverse personalities just like the women did.
So what will you do? Remember that some of the very qualities that make a lion or make a wolf might be exactly the qualities you need to help you fulfill your assignment.
So they're not all lambs, but they all are our brothers and sisters.
So if Jehovah allows a diversity of personalities within the context of the new personality, then so should we.
Diverse personalities make for rich friendships.
Luke wrote these words in about, or he's talking about events that took place around the Passover of 31 CE.
When you think of these women, these women were with Jesus at Golgotha. These women were at the tomb.
Likely, these women may have been in the upper room as well. That tells us that these women endured challenging circumstances.
They stuck with the Lord. What helped them?
Look back at the verse. Verse 2. As were certain women who had been cured of wicked spirits and sicknesses.
These women deeply appreciated what Jesus had done for them.
Certainly they glorified God because of what Jesus had done for them, but they also allowed their appreciation to help them endure, to endure in a self-sacrificing life of ministering to others.
So stay appreciative and that will help you endure.
Our friends are dying. Our friends are getting sick.
Meditate on how Jehovah has blessed you.
Meditate on the little things each day. The little gifts Jehovah gives you.
Maybe it's simply the peace in your heart and mind this day.
Remain appreciative for that and that will help you endure as a minister in your assignment.
One other thing that's noteworthy about these women is that these women were not easily thrown off by others.
Remember we said we talked about others, the other disciples, when other disciples left Christ, the women stayed.
At Golgotha, even the apostles, to a certain degree, had left Christ or fled the women's state.
They stood solidly on their own faith. Brothers and sisters, do not be thrown off easily by others.
Sometimes you can imagine for these women with the disciples it felt like a family.
And sometimes today in families ones choose to leave Jehovah, even at this late hour, stand solidly on your own faith.
Like the women, do not be easily thrown off, stay with Jehovah.
These women must have made quite an impression on Luke because he's the only gospel writer who mentions them by name in this way.
An interestingly Luke was a traveling companion of Paul from about 50 CE in Troas. He picked up with Paul and started traveling with him.
And he traveled with him for years.
I wonder if they spoke together. I wonder if they spoke about these women.
I wonder if they talked about how important it is to focus on the work of ministering and not to get distracted by other things.
I wonder if they talked about the value of preserving unity by learning to work with different personalities.
Did they talk about the power of appreciation to endure?
We don't know, but what we do know is this, when Paul was in prison in Rome and he wrote his letter to the Hebrews, the congregation in Judea and Jerusalem, Luke was with him.
Do you remember what Paul wrote in Hebrews 6 verse 10? He said, God is not unrighteous, so as to forget your work and the love you showed to his name by ministering.
Jehovah did not forget these women and Jehovah will not forget you.
May you work hard to put into practice the things that you have learned and may you be able to say that you are more outstandingly a minister of Christ.